The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Ideal Bartender, by Tom Bullock


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net





Title: The Ideal Bartender

Author: Tom Bullock

Release Date: September 17, 2004  [eBook #13487]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-646-US (US-ASCII)


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE IDEAL BARTENDER***


E-text prepared by Stephen Schulze and the Project Gutenbert Online
Distributed Proofreading Team from scans courtesy of Michigan State
University



THE IDEAL BARTENDER

by

TOM BULLOCK

1917







DEDICATED

TO THOSE WHO ENJOY SNUG CLUB ROOMS, THAT THEY MAY LEARN THE ART OF
PREPARING FOR THEMSELVES WHAT IS GOOD.

IS IT ANY WONDER THAT MANKIND STANDS OPEN-MOUTHED BEFORE THE BARTENDER,
CONSIDERING THE MYSTERIES AND MARVELS OF AN ART THAT BORDERS ON MAGIC?
RECIPES FOUND IN THIS BOOK HAVE BEEN COMPOSED AND COLLECTED, TRIED AND
TESTED, IN A QUARTER-CENTURY OF EXPERIENCE BY TOM BULLOCK OF THE ST.
LOUIS COUNTRY CLUB.




A testimonial from the St. Louis Post-Dispatch which appeared in the
form of an editorial, Wednesday evening, May 28, 1913, at a time when
Col. Roosevelt was vindicating, by a libel suit, his reputation for
sobriety and temperance.


    Colonel Roosevelt's fatal admission that he drank just a part of one
    julep at the St. Louis Country Club will come very near losing his
    case.

    Who was ever known to drink just a part of one of Tom's? Tom, than
    whom there is no greater mixologist of any race, color or condition
    of servitude, was taught the art of the julep by no less than Marse
    Lilburn G. McNair, the father of the julep. In fact, the very cup
    that Col. Roosevelt drank it from belonged to Governor McNair, the
    first Governor of Missouri, the great-grandfather of Marse Lilburn
    and the great-great-grandfather of the julep.

    As is well known, the Country Club mint originally sprang on the
    slopes of Parnassus and was transplanted thence to the bosky banks
    of Culpeper Creek, Gaines County, Ky., and thence to our own
    environs; while the classic distillation with which Tom mingles it
    to produce his chief d'oeuvre is the oft-quoted liquefied soul of a
    Southern moonbeam falling aslant the dewy slopes of the Cumberland
    Mountains.

    To believe that a red-blooded man, and a true Colonel at that, ever
    stopped with just a part of one of those refreshments which have
    made St. Louis hospitality proverbial and become one of our most
    distinctive genre institutions, is to strain credulity too far. Are
    the Colonel's powers of self restraint altogether transcendent? Have
    we found the living superman at last?

    When the Colonel says that he consumed just a part of one he
    doubtless meant that he did not swallow the Mint itself, munch the
    ice and devour the very cup.





INTRODUCTION


I have known the author of "The Ideal Bartender" for many years, and it
is a genuine privilege to be permitted to testify to his qualifications
for such a work.

To his many friends in St. Louis, Louisville, Cincinnati, Chicago and
elsewhere, my word will be superfluous, but to those who do not know
him, and who are to be the gainers by following his advices, it may
prove at the very beginning a stimulus to know something of his record
of achievement.

For the past quarter of a century he has refreshed and delighted the
members and their friends of the Pendennis Club of Louisville and the
St. Louis Country Club of St. Louis. In all that time I doubt if he has
erred in even one of his concoctions. Thus if there is "many a slip
twixt the cup and the lip" it has been none of his doing, but rather the
fault of those who have appreciated his art too highly. But why go on!
His work is before you. It is the best to be had. Follow on, and as you
sip the nectar of his schemings tell your friends, to the end that both
they and he may be benefitted.

G. H. WALKER.




ABRICONTINE POUSSE CAFE

Fill Pousse Cafe glass one-third full of Abricontine and add Maraschino,
Curacoa, Chartreuse and Brandy in equal proportions until the glass is
filled. The ingredients should be poured in one after the other from a
small Wine glass, with great care, to prevent the colors from blending.
Ignite the Brandy on top, and after it has blazed for a few seconds
extinguishing it by placing a saucer or the bottom of another glass over
the blazing fluid. Then serve.


ABSINTHE

(When the customer asks for Absinthe without specifying any particular
style of service).

Pour one pony of Absinthe into large Bar glass and let ice cold water
drip from the Absinthe glass into Bar glass until full. The Absinthe
glass has a hole in the center. By filling the bowl of the Absinthe
glass partly with Shaved Ice, and the rest with water, the water will be
ice cold as it drops from the Absinthe glass.


ABSINTHE, AMERICAN SERVICE

Mixing glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

4 dashes Gum Syrup.

1 pony Absinthe.

Shake until outside of shaker is well frosted; strain into large
Champagne glass and serve.


ABSINTHE COCKTAIL

Mixing glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

1/2 jigger Water.

1/2 jigger Absinthe.

2 dashes Angostura Bitters.

1 teaspoonful Benedictine.

Stir; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


ABSINTHE FRAPPE

Fill medium Bar glass full of Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Benedictine.

1 pony Absinthe.

Shake until outside of Shaker has frosty appearance; strain into
six-ounce Shell glass and serve.


ABSINTHE, FRENCH SERVICE

Pour 1 pony of Absinthe into a Champagne glass which is standing in a
bowl. Fill the bowl of your Absinthe glass with Shaved Ice and water.
Raise the bowl and let the Ice Water drip into the Absinthe until the
proper color is obtained. Serve in thin Bar glass.


ABSINTHE, ITALIAN SERVICE

1 pony of Absinthe in a large Bar glass.

3 pieces Cracked Ice.

3 dashes Maraschino.

1/2 pony Anisette.

Pour Ice Water in glass, at same time stirring gently with Bar Spoon.
Serve.


ADMIRAL SCHLEY HIGH BALL

Drop a piece of Ice into a High Ball glass.

1 teaspoonful Pineapple Syrup.

1 teaspoonful Lemon Juice.

2/3 jigger Irish Whiskey.

2/3 jigger Tokay, Angelica or Sweet Catawba Wine.

Fill up with Apollinaris or Seltzer.


ALE FLIP

Fill an Ale glass nearly full.

1 teaspoonful of Bar Sugar.

Break in 1 whole Egg; grate a little Nutmeg on top and serve the drink
with a spoon alongside of the glass.


ALE SANGAREE

Dissolve in an Ale glass 1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar. Fill up with Ale and
serve with grated Nutmeg on top.


AMERICAN POUSSE CAFE

Fill a Pousse Cafe glass 1/4 full of Chartreuse, and add Maraschino,
Curacoa and Brandy in equal proportions until the glass is filled. Then
proceed as for Abricontine Pousse Cafe.


APOLLINARIS LEMONADE

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Powdered Sugar.

1 Lemon's Juice.

Fill up with Apollinaris; stir; strain into Lemonade glass dress with
Fruit and serve.


APPLE JACK COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

3 dashes Gum Syrup.

3 dashes Raspberry Syrup.

1-1/4 jiggers Applejack.

Shake; strain into Cocktail glass and serve with piece of Lemon Peel
twisted on top.


APPLEJACK FIX

Fill large Bar glass with Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar, dissolved in little Water.

1/4 Juice of 1 Lemon.

3 dashes of Curacoa.

4 dashes of any Fruit Syrup.

1 jigger Applejack Brandy.

Stir; dress with Fruits; serve with Straws.


APPLEJACK SOUR

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar, dissolved in little Water.

3 dashes lemon or Lime Juice.

1 jigger Applejack.

Stir well; strain into Sour glass; dress with Fruit and Berries and
serve.


"ARF-AND-ARF"

Pour into an Ale glass or mug 1/2 Porter and 1/2 Ale, or Porter and
Stout with Ale, or 1/2 Old and 1/2 New Ale.

The use of the Porter and Ale is more prevalent in England. In the
United States 1/2 Old and 1/2 New Ale is usually used when this drink is
called for, unless otherwise specified.


ARRACK PUNCH

Pour into a Punch glass the Juice of 1 Lime and a little Apollinaris
Water in which a heaping teaspoonful of Bar Sugar has been dissolved.
Add:

1 Lump Ice.

3/4 jigger Batavia Arrack.

1/4 Jigger Jamaica Rum.

Stir well; dash with Champagne; stir again briskly; dress with Fruit and
Serve.


ASTRINGENT

1/2 Wineglass Port Wine.

6 dashes Jamaica Ginger.

Fill up with Brandy; stir gently and serve with little Nutmeg on top.


AUDITORIUM COOLER

Into large Bar glass squeeze Juice of 1 Lemon.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

1 bottle Ginger Ale off the ice.

Stir; decorate with Fruit and Berries, Serve.


ALL RIGHT COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass filled with Lump Ice.

1 jigger Rye Whiskey.

2/3 jigger Orange Curacoa.

1 dash Angostura Bitters.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BACARDI COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass.

Fill with Lump Ice.

1/2 jigger Cusinier Grenadine.

1 jigger Bacardi Rum.

Shake well and serve in a Cocktail glass.


BACARDI COCKTAIL--Country Club Style

Use a large Mixing glass.

Fill with Lump Ice.

1/2 Lime Juice.

2 dashes Imported Grenadine.

1 jigger Bacardi Rum.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BALDY COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

1 jigger of Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1 pony of Orange Juice.

1 Dash of Orange Bitters.

Shake; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BAMBOO COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 1/3 full Fine Ice.

3/4 Sherry Wine.

3/4 Italian Vermouth.

Stir; strain into Cocktail glass. Serve.


BLACK COW

Use a large Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

2 jiggers of Cream.

1 bottle Sarsaparilla.

Stir well and serve with Straws.


BLOOD HOUND COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

Add 1/2 dozen fresh Strawberries.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BOMBAY COCKTAIL

Use a Claret glass.

1/2 pony Olive Oil.

1/2 pony Vinegar.

1/2 pony Worcestershire Sauce.

Break one Ice Cold Egg into glass.

Add salt and Spanish Paprica and serve.


BENEDICTINE

Place an inverted Whiskey glass on the bar, set a Pony glass on it and
fill up with Benedictine. Serve all liquors straight in this manner.


BEEF TEA

1/2 teaspoonful Beef Extract in small Bar glass.

Fill glass with Hot Water. Stir well while seasoning with Pepper, Salt
and Celery Salt. Serve with small glass of Cracked Ice and spoon on the
side.


BISHOP

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar in large Bar glass.

2 dashes Lemon Juice with the Skin of Two Slices.

Fill glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

1 dash Seltzer Water.

2 dashes Jamaica Rum.

Fill up with Claret or Burgundy; shake; ornament with Fruit and serve
with Straws.


BISHOP A LA PRUSSE

Before a Fire or in a Hot Oven roast 6 large Oranges until they are of a
light brown color, and then place them in a deep dish and scatter over
them 1/2 lb. of Granulated Sugar and pour on 1 pint of Port or Claret
Wine. Then cover the dish and set aside for 24 hours before the time to
serve. When about ready for the service, set the dish in boiling water;
press the Juice from the Oranges with a large spoon or wooden potato
masher and strain the Juice through a fine seive or cheese cloth. Then
boil 1 pint of Port or Claret and mix it with the Strained Juice. Serve
in stem Claret glasses while warm. A little Nutmeg on top improves the
drink, but should not be added unless requested by customer or guest.


BISMARCK

2 teaspoonfuls Vanilla Cordial in Sherry Wine glass.

1 yolk of an Egg covered with Benedictine so as not to break the yolk.

1/2 Wineglass Kuemmel.

1 light dash Angostura Bitters.

The colors should be kept separate and great care exercised to prevent
the ingredients from running together.


BIZZY IZZY HIGH BALL

Drop 1 piece of Ice into a Highball glass.

2 dashes Lemon Juice.

2 teaspoonfuls Pineapple Syrup.

1/2 jigger Sherry Wine.

1/2 jigger Rye or Bourbon Whiskey.


BLACK STRIPE

Pour Wineglass Santa Cruz or Jamaica Rum into a small Bar glass and add
1 tablespoonful of Molasses.

If to serve hot, fill glass with boiling Water and sprinkle Nutmeg on
top.

If to serve cold, add 1/2 Wineglass Water. Stir well and fill up with
Shaved Ice.


BLACK AND TAN PUNCH (For party of 10)

1 lb. white Sugar.

Juice of 6 Lemons.

1 quart Guinness Stout.

1 quart Champagne.

Pour into mixture of Lemon Juice and Sugar the Champagne and Stout, ice
cold. Serve in Punch glasses dressed with Fruit.


BLACKTHORNE COCKTAIL

Fill Mixing glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1/4 teaspoonful Lemon Juice.

1 teaspoonful Syrup.

1/2 jigger Vermouth.

1/2 Jigger Sloe Gin.

1 dash Angostura Bitters.

2 dashes Orange Bitters.

Stir; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BLACKTHORNE SOUR

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

4 dashes Lime or Lemon Juice.

1 teaspoonful Pineapple Syrup.

1/2 teaspoonful green Chartreuse.

1 jigger Sloe Gin.

Stir; strain into Claret glass; ornament with Fruit and serve.


BLIZ'S ROYAL RICKEY

Drop 3 lumps Cracked Ice in a Rickey (thin Champagne) glass.

1/2 Lime or 1/4 Lemon.

4 dashes Raspberry Syrup.

1 pony Vermouth.

3/4 jigger Gin.

Fill up with Ginger Ale (imported); stir; dress with Fruit and serve.


BLUE BLAZER

Use two Pewter or Silver Mugs.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar dissolved in a little Hot Water.

1 Wineglass (or jigger) Scotch Whiskey.

Ignite the mixture, and while blazing pour it several times from one mug
to the other. Serve with a piece of twisted Lemon Peel on top.


BOATING PUNCH

Into a large Bar glass put:

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

2 dashes Lemon Juice.

1 dash Lime Juice.

Fill up with Shaved Ice and add:

1 pony Brandy.

1 jigger Santa Cruz Bum.

Stir; dress with Fruit and serve with Straws.


BOMBAY PUNCH (2-1/2-gallon mixture for 40 people)

Bruise the skins of 6 Lemons in 1 lb. of Bar sugar and put the Sugar in
a Punch bowl and add:

1 box Strawberries.

2 Lemons, sliced.

6 Oranges, sliced.

1 Pineapple, cut into small pieces.

1 quart Brandy.

1 quart Sherry Wine.

1 quart Madeira Wine.

Stir well; empty into another bowl in which a block of Clear Ice has
been placed and add:

4 quarts of Champagne.

2 quarts Carbonated Water.

Serve into Punch glasses so that each person will have some of the
Fruit.


BON SOIR ("Good Night")

Fill a Sherry glass 1/2 full of Shaved Ice.

1/2 pony Benedictine.

1/2 pony Creme Yvette.

Fill up with Ginger Ale; stir gently and serve with a Straw cut in two.


BOSTON COOLER

1 Lemon Rind in large Bar glass. 3 lumps Ice. 1 bottle Ginger Ale. 1
bottle Sarsaparilla.

Serve.


BOTTLE OF COCKTAIL

Pour a quart of Whiskey or other Liquor desired into a Bar measure or
glass pitcher and add:

1 jigger Gum Syrup.

1 pony Curacoa.

3/4 pony Angostura Bitters.

Pour back and forth from one measure or pitcher into another measure or
pitcher until the liquid is thoroughly mixed. Bottle and cork.


BRACE UP

1 tablespoonful Bar Sugar in large Mixing glass.

3 dashes Boker's or Angostura Bitters.

3 dashes Lemon Juice.

2 dashes Anisette.

1 Egg.

1 jigger Brandy

1/2 glass Shaved Ice.

Shake well; strain into tall, thin glass; fill with Apollinaris and
serve.


BRANDY AND GINGER ALE

3 lumps of Ice in tall, thin glass.

1 Wineglass Brandy.

1 bottle Ginger Ale.

Stir briskly and serve.


BRANDY AND SODA

2 pieces of Ice in tall, thin glass.

1 Wineglass Brandy.

1 bottle plain Soda.

Stir briskly and serve.


BRANDY FLIP

Fill medium. Bar glass 1/4 full Shaved Ice.

1 Egg broken in whole.

2 level teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

1 jigger Brandy.

Shake well; strain into small Shell glass; grate a little Nutmeg on top
and serve.


BRANDY FLOAT

Fill a Cocktail glass 2/3 full of Carbonated Water.

1 pony Brandy floated on top.

(Use spoon to float the Brandy).


BRANDY JULEP

Into a small Bar glass pour 3/4 Wineglass of Water and stir in 1 heaping
teaspoonful of Bar Sugar. Bruise 3 or 4 sprigs of Mint in the Sugar and
Water with a Muddler until the flavor of the Mint has been extracted.
Then withdraw the Mint and pour the flavored Water into a tall Shell
glass or large Goblet, which has been filled with fine Ice, and add:

1 jigger of Brandy.

2 dashes Jamaica Rum.

Stir well; decorate with few sprigs of Mint by planting the sprigs stems
downward in the Ice around the rim of glass; dress with Fruit and serve.


BRANDY PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar dissolved in little Water.

1/2 Juice of 1 Lemon.

1/4 jigger Santa Cruz Rum.

1-1/2 jiggers Brandy.

1 slice Orange.

1 piece of Pineapple.

Shake; dress with Fruit and serve with Straw.


BRANDY SCAFFA

Into a small Wineglass pour:

Green Chartreuse.

Maraschino.

Old Brandy.

In equal proportion to fill the glass, using care as in preparing
Crustas, not to allow the colors to blend.


BRANDY SHAKE

Fill small Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

Juice of 2 Limes.

1 jigger Brandy.

Shake; strain into small fancy glass and serve.


BRANDY SHRUB (2-gallon mixture for 40 people)

Into a Punch bowl put the Peeled Rinds of 5 Lemons and the Juice of 12
Lemons and add 5 quarts of Brandy. Make the bowl airtight and set it
aside. At the expiration of 6 days add 3 quarts of Sherry wine and 6
pounds of Loaf Sugar, which has been dissolved in 1 quart of plain Soda.
Strain through a bag and bottle.


BRANDY SKIN

Fill a Whiskey glass 1/2 full Hot Water and pour in:

1 jigger Brandy.

Twist a piece of Lemon Skin on top and serve.

(It may occur that a customer will ask for a little Sugar. In that case
add 1/2 small teaspoonful, and stir).


BRANDY SLING

In a Whiskey glass:

1 lump Ice.

1 teaspoonful Sugar dissolved in little Water.

1 jigger Brandy.

Stir; twist in a piece of Lemon Peel; grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


BRANDY SMASH

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

1 heaping teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

3 sprigs of Mint.

1 jigger Brandy.

Stir; strain into fancy Stem glass and serve.


BRANDY SOUR

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

3 dashes Lemon or Lime Juice.

3 dashes Seltzer or Apollinaris Water.

1 jigger Brandy.

Stir; strain into Sour glass; dress with Fruit and serve.


BRANDY TODDY

Into a Whiskey glass drop 1 lump Cracked Ice.

1 teaspoonful of Bar Sugar dissolved in little Water.

Stir; place the bottle before the customer and allow him to pour his own
drink.


BRONX COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

1/3 jigger Dry Gin.

1/3 jigger French Vermouth.

1/3 jigger Italian Vermouth.

1 Slice Orange.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BURNT BRANDY

Place two lumps of Cut Loaf Sugar in a small, shallow dish or saucer and
pour over the Sugar 1-1/2 jiggers of Cognac Brandy. Ignite the Sugar and
Brandy and let them burn for about two minutes. Then cover the dish or
saucer with a plate, and when the fire is extinguished pour the liquid
into a small Bar glass and serve.


BUSTER BROWN COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Gum Syrup.

2 dashes Lemon Juice.

2 dashes Orange Bitters.

1 jigger Whiskey.

Stir; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


BUTTERED RUM

In a Tumbler drop 1 lump of Sugar and dissolve it in a little hot Water,
and add:

1-1/4 Jiggers Rum.

1 piece of Butter about the size of a Walnut.

Grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


CALIFORNIA SHERRY COBBLER

1 pony of Pineapple Syrup in large Bar glass.

2 jiggers California Sherry.

Fill glass with Shaved Ice; stir well; decorate with Fruit; dash a
little Port Wine on top and serve with Straws.


CALIFORNIA WINE COBBLER

Fill tall, thin glass nearly full Shaved Ice.

1 heaping teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

Juice of 1 Orange.

2-1/2 jiggers California Wine.

Stir; ornament with Fruit and serve with Straws.


CARLETON RICKEY--St. Louis Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with lump Ice.

Juice 1 Lime.

Drop squeezed Lime in glass.

1 jigger Old Bourbon Whiskey.

Fill with Sweet Soda.

Stir well and serve.


CATAWBA COBBLER

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full of Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar dissolved in a little Water.

1-1/2 jiggers Catawba Wine.

1/4 slice of Orange.

Fill with Shaved Ice; stir well; decorate with Berries and serve with
Straws.


CELERY SOUR

Fill large Bar glass full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Lemon Juice.

1 teaspoonful Pineapple Syrup.

1 teaspoonful Celery Bitters.

Stir; strain into Fancy Wineglass with Fruit and serve.


CENTURY CLUB PUNCH (for a party of 5)

Fill glass Pitcher 1/4 full Cracked Ice.

1/2 pint Jamaica Rum.

1/2 pint Santa Cruz Rum.

2-1/2 pints aerated Water.

2-1/2 tablespoonfuls Bar Sugar.

Stir well and serve in Punch glasses.


CHAMPAGNE

Serve off the Ice very cold. Ice should never be put in the Wine.


CHAMPAGNE COBBLER

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar in large Bar glass.

1 slice Lemon Peel.

1 slice Orange Peel

Fill glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice and fill up with Champagne. Decorate with
Fruit and serve with Straws.


CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL

1 lump Sugar in tall, thin glass.

1 small piece Ice.

2 dashes Angostura Bitters.

1 piece twisted Lemon Peel.

Fill up with Champagne.

Stir and serve.


CHAMPAGNE CUP (2-gallon mixture)

For mixing use a large Punch bowl or other suitable vessel of glass or
porcelain lined.

4 Oranges, sliced.

4 Lemons, sliced.

1/2 Pineapple, sliced.

1/2 pint Chartreuse.

1/2 pint Abricontine.

1 pint Curacoa.

1 pint Cognac Brandy.

1 pint Tokay Wine.

Stir well and allow mixture to stand three hours. Strain into another
bowl and add:

3 quarts Champagne.

3 pints Apollinaris Water.

1 large piece of Ice.

Stir well; decorate with Fruit; float slices of Grape Fruit on top and
serve in Champagne glasses.


CHAMPAGNE FRAPPE

Place a bottle in a Champagne cooler and around it a freezing mixture of
fine Ice and Salt. Twirl the bottle until it is about to freeze, when it
will be ready to serve.


CHAMPAGNE JULEP

Fill medium size Shell glass 1/3 full Cracked Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

2 sprigs bruised Mint.

Pour Champagne slowly into the glass, stirring gently at the same time.

Dress with fruit; dash with Brandy and serve with Straws.


CHAMPAGNE PUNCH (for a party of 6)

Into a glass Pitcher pour the Juice of 1 Lemon, and add:

1/4 lb. Bar Sugar.

1 jigger Strawberry Syrup.

1 quart bottle Champagne.

Stir with Ladle and drop in:

1 sliced Orange.

3 slices Pineapple.

Decorate with Fruit and serve in Champagne goblets.


CHAMPAGNE SOUR

Fill medium Bar glass 1/3 full Shaved Ice.

3 dashes Lemon Juice.

Fill up with Champagne.

Stir gently; dress with Fruit and Berries; dash with Brandy and serve
with Straws.


CHAMPAGNE VELVET

Fill Goblet 1/2 full ice-cold Champagne. Fill up balance of Goblet with
ice-cold Porter. Stir and serve.


CHOCOLATE PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

1/4 jigger Curacoa.

1 jigger Port Wine.

1 Egg.

Fill up with Milk; shake well; strain into Punch glass; grate Nutmeg on
top and serve.


CIDER EGGNOG

Into a large Bar glass break a fresh Egg.

1 teaspoonful Sugar.

4 lumps Cracked Ice.

Fill up with Sweet Cider.

Shake; strain into tall, thin glass and serve with grated Nutmeg on top.


CLARET AND ICE

4 lumps Ice in medium size Mineral Water glass.

Fill up with Claret and serve.


CLARET COBBLER

Dissolve one teaspoonful of Sugar with little Water in large Bar glass.

1 quartered slice Orange.

2 jiggers Claret.

Fill up with Shaved Ice and serve with Straws.


CLARET CUP (2-gallon mixture)

For mixing use a large Punch bowl or other suitable vessel of glass or
porcelain lined.

6 Oranges, sliced.

3 Lemons, sliced.

2 Pineapples.

2 jiggers Abricontine.

4 jiggers Curacoa.

4 quarts Claret.

3 pints Apollinaris.

Mix well with a Ladle and set aside for three hours before using. Then
strain info another bowl, and when ready to use add 3 pints of some
sparkling Wine, preferably Champagne. Stir gently once or twice, and
then put in a block of clear Ice and decorate the top of it tastily with
Fruits and let several slices of Grape Fruit float around in the bowl.
Serve in Champagne glasses.


CLARET FLIP

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

2 heaping teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar dissolved in a little Water.

1 whole Egg broken in.

1-1/2 Jiggers Claret Wine.

Shake thoroughly; strain into Punch glass; sprinkle with Nutmeg on top
and serve.


CLARET PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

3 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

4 dashes Lemon Juice.

2 slices Orange.

2 jiggers Claret.

Shake; strain into thin glass; dress with Fruit and serve with Straws.


CLARET PUNCH (5-gallon mixture for a large reception or party of 100
people)

For mixing use a large agate or porcelain-lined vessel.

4 lbs. Cut Loaf Sugar.

Juice of 25 Lemons.

2 quarts Brandy.

10 quarts Claret.

7 jiggers Chartreuse (green).

8 quarts Carbonated Water.

Stir well.

Place a large block of Ice in a Punch bowl and fill nearly full of the
mixture, adding:

18 Oranges, cut in slices.

1-1/2 cans sliced Pineapples.

Serve from the bowl into Punch glasses with a Ladle, and renew the
contents of the bowl from the mixing vessel as needed.


CLOVER CLUB COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Fine Ice.

1/2 pony Raspberry Syrup.

1/2 jigger Dry Gin.

1/2 jigger French Vermouth.

White of 1 Egg.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


CLOVER LEAF COCKTAIL

Fill Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

1/2 pony Cusenier Grenadine.

The white of one Egg.

1 jigger Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Shake well and strain into a Cocktail glass.


CLUB COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

2 dashes Angostura Bitters.

2 dashes Pineapple Syrup.

1 jigger Brandy.

Stir; strain into Cocktail glass; dress with Berries; dash with
Champagne; twist a piece of Lemon Skin over the drink and drop it on
top. Serve.


CLUB HOUSE CLARET PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

4 dashes Gum Syrup.

1 teaspoonful Lemon Juice.

1 teaspoonful Orange Juice.

2 jiggers Claret.

Shake; strain into tall, thin glass; fill up with Apollinaris or
Seltzer; dress with Fruit and serve.


CLUB HOUSE PUNCH (for a party of 20)

For mixing use a large Punch bowl.

1/2 can Peaches.

1/2 can Pineapples.

3 Oranges, sliced.

3 Lemons, sliced.

3 quarts Sweet Catawba or Tokay.

1 pint Brandy.

1-1/2 jiggers Jamaica Rum.

1 jigger Green Chartreuse.

Set this mixture aside in ice box for 6 hours. Then place block of Ice
in another bowl of sufficient capacity and strain in the mixture from
the Mixing bowl. Dress the Ice with Fruit and serve with a Ladle into
Punch glasses.


COFFEE COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1 fresh Egg.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

1 jigger Port Wine.

1 pony Brandy.

Shake; strain into medium thin glass; grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


COHASSET PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

1 jigger New England Rum.

1 jigger Vermouth.

3 dashes Gum Syrup.

1 dash Orange Bitters.

1/2 juice of a Lemon

Stir and serve with a Preserved Peach and its liquor.


COLD RUBY PUNCH (2-1/2-gallon mixture for 50 people)

4 lbs. Cut Loaf Sugar.

2 quarts Port Wine.

2 quarts Batavia Arrack.

6 quarts green Tea.

Juice of 24 Lemons.

(See instructions for mixing and serving Punches in quantities.)


COLUMBIA SKIN

This drink is identical with Whiskey Skin.


COMPANION PUNCH (2-1/2-gallon mixture for a reception or party of 50
people)

Into a large Punch bowl pour:

1-1/4 pints Lemon Juice.

2 pints Gum Syrup.

3/4 pint Orange Juice.

1-1/4 pints Brandy.

6 quarts equal parts Sweet and Dry Catawba.

2 quarts Carbonated Water.

When well stirred place large block of Ice in center of bowl; dress the
Ice with Fruit and serve with a Ladle into Punch glasses.


CONTINENTAL SOUR

Fill a large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar dissolved in little Water.

Juice of 1/2 Lemon.

1 jigger of Whiskey, Brandy or Gin, as preferred.

Shake; strain into Sour glass; dash with Claret and serve.


CORDIAL LEMONADE

Add to a plain Lemonade 1/3 Jigger of any Cordial which the customer may
prefer, and serve.


COUNTRY COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

1 pony Brandy.

1 jigger Port Wine.

1 Egg.

Shake well; strain into thin glass; grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


COUPEREE

Fill large Bar glass 1/3 full Ice Cream.

3/4 jigger Brandy.

1 pony Bed Curacoa.

Mix thoroughly with a spoon.

Fill up with Plain Soda; grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


CREME DE MENTHE

Fill a Sherry glass with Shaved Ice.

1 pony Creme de Menthe.

Cut Straw in two pieces and serve.


CRIMEAN CUP A LA MARMORA (for a party of 10)

Into a small Punch bowl pour:

1 pint Orgeat Syrup.

2 jiggers Jamaica Rum.

2 jiggers Maraschino.

2-1/2 jiggers Brandy.

2 tablespoonfuls Bar Sugar.

1 quart Champagne.

1 quart Plain Soda.

Stir well; pack the bowl in Fine Ice, and when cold serve in fancy Stem
glasses.


COUNTRY CLUB PUNCH

Take 1-1/2 lbs. of Cut Loaf Sugar and rub the lumps on the skins of 4
Lemons and 2 Oranges until the Sugar becomes well saturated with the oil
from the skins. Then put the Sugar thus prepared into a large
porcelain-lined or agate Mixing vessel, and add:

12 Oranges, sliced.

1 Pineapple, sliced.

1 box Strawberries.

2 bottles (quarts) Apollinaris Water.

Stir thoroughly with oak paddle or large silver ladle, and add:

1 jigger Benedictine.

1 jigger Red Curacoa.

1 jigger Maraschino.

1/2 jigger Jamaica Rum.

1 quart Brandy.

4 quarts Tokay or Sweet Catawba Wine.

2 quarts Madeira Wine.

4 quarts Chateau Margaux.

Mix well with oak paddle or ladle and strain into another bowl in which
has been placed a block of clear ice. Then pour in 6 quarts Champagne.
Decorate the Ice with Fruits, Berries, etc. Serve in Punch cups or
glasses, dressing each glass with Fruit and Berries from the bowl.


COOPERSTOWN COCKTAIL

Use a large Bar glass.

Fill with Lump Ice.

One jigger of Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1/2 pony of Italian Vermouth.

Six leaves of fresh Mint.

Shake ingredients well together.

Strain and serve in Cocktail glass.


CURACOA

Into a bottle which will hold a full quart, or a little over, drop 6
ounces of Orange Peel sliced very thin, and add 1 pint of Whiskey. Cork
the bottle securely and let it stand two weeks, shaking the bottle
frequently during that time. Next strain, the mixture, add the Syrup,
pour the strained mixture back into the cleaned bottle and let it stand
3 days, shaking well now and then during the first day. Next, pour a
teacupful of the mixture into a mortar and beat up with it 1 drachm
Powdered Alum, 1 drachm Carbonate of Potash. Put this mixture back into
the bottle and let it stand for 10 days, at the expiration of which time
the Curacoa will be clear and ready for use.


CURACOA PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

4 dashes Lemon Juice.

1 pony Red Curacoa.

1 jigger Brandy.

1/2 pony Jamaica Rum.

Stir; decorate with Fruit and Serve with Straws.


CURRANT SHRUB

For mixing use a porcelain-lined or agate vessel, and put in:

1-1/2 lbs. Cut Loaf Sugar.

1 quart Currant Juice

Place vessel on the fire and let it boil slowly for 10 minutes, and skim
well while boiling. Then remove vessel from fire and add 1/2 gill of
Brandy to every pint of Shrub. Bottle and cork securely. This drink is
served by simply pouring a little of the Syrup into Ice Water, as any
drink from Fruit Syrup is prepared. The basis preparation for all Shrubs
or Small Fruits, such as Cherries, Raspberries, etc., is prepared in the
same way as directed for Currant Shrub, varying the quantity of Sugar
used to suit the kind of Fruit.


DERONDA COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass with Shaved Ice.

1-1/2 jiggers Calisaya.

1-1/2 jiggers Plymouth Gin.

Shake; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


DIARRHEA DRAUGHT

Into a Whiskey glass pour:

1/2 jigger Blackberry Brandy.

1/2 pony Peach Brandy.

2 dashes Jamaica Ginger.

Grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


DIXIE COCKTAIL

Add to a plain Whiskey Cocktail:

1 dash Curacoa.

6 drops Creme de Menthe.


DREAM

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

3 dashes Lemon Juice.

1 white of an Egg.

1 Wineglass Milk and Cream.

1 jigger Tom Gin.

Shake thoroughly; strain into tall, thin glass; cover the top lightly
with Creme de Menthe and serve.


DELUSION

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Shaved Ice.

1/2 Lime Juice.

2/3 white Creme de Menthe.

1/3 Apricot Brandy.

Shake well; strain into thin Stem glass and serve.


DORAY PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Lemon Juice.

4 dashes Pineapple Syrup.

4 dashes Gum Syrup.

1/4 jigger Jamaica Rum.

1/4 jigger green Chartreuse.

1/2 jigger Tokay Wine.

1/2 jigger Brandy.

1 white of an Egg.

Shake hard; strain into thin Bar glass; dress with Fruit; dash with
Seltzer; grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


DORAY SOUR

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 full Shaved Ice.

3 dashes Gum Syrup

4 dashes Lemon Juice.

1 dash Lime Juice.

1 teaspoonful Abricontine or green Chartreuse.

1/2 jigger Tokay or Sweet Catawba Wine.

1/2 jigger Brandy.

Stir well and strain into a fancy Sour glass; dress with Fruits; dash
with Apollinaris or Seltzer; top off with a little Claret and serve.


DUPLEX COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass with Shaved Ice.

1/3 Jigger Old Tom Gin.

1 pony Italian Vermouth.

1 pony French Vermouth.

3 dashes Acid Phosphate.

4 dashes Orange Bitters.

Shake; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


DURKEE COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 2/3 Full Shaved Ice.

1 tablespoonful Bar Sugar.

4 dashes Lemon Juice.

3 dashes Curacoa.

1 jigger Jamaica Rum.

Shake well; strain into tall, thin glass; fill up with Plain Soda; stir
gently and serve.


EAGLE PUNCH

Into a Hot Water glass drop:

1 lump Cut Loaf Sugar and dissolve in little Hot Water, crashing with
muddler.

1/2 jigger Bourbon Whiskey.

1/2 jigger Rye Whiskey.

Fill up with boiling Water; twist a piece of Lemon Peel and grate Nutmeg
on top and serve.


EAST INDIA COCKTAIL

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

3 dashes Maraschino.

3 dashes Red Curacoa.

3 dashes Angostura Bitters.

1 jigger Brandy.

Stir well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve with a piece of twisted
Lemon Peel on top.


EGG MILK PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

1 Egg

1 pony Santa Cruz Rum.

1 jigger Brandy.

Fill up with Milk; shake thoroughly until the mixture creams; strain
into tall thin glass; grate Nutmeg on top and serve.


EGGNOG

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

1 Egg

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

3/4 jigger Brandy.

1/2 jigger Jamaica Rum.

Fill up with Milk; shake thoroughly; strain into tall, thin glass and
serve with little Nutmeg grated on top.


EGGNOG (bowl of 3 gallons)

Beat the yolks of 20 Eggs until thin and stir in 2-1/2 lbs. Bar Sugar
until Sugar is thoroughly dissolved. Into this mixture pour:

1-1/2 pints Jamaica Rum.

2 quarts old Brandy.

Mix the ingredients well by stirring. Then pour in the milk slowly,
stirring all the while to prevent curdling. Pour carefully over the top
of the mixture the whites of the Eggs, which have been beaten to a stiff
froth. Fill Punch glasses from the bowl with ladle and sprinkle a little
Nutmeg over each glassful.


EGG SOUR

Into small Bar glass drop:

3 lumps Ice.

1 tablespoonful Bar Sugar.

1 Egg.

Juice of 1 Lemon.

Shake well; grate Nutmeg on top and serve with Straw.


EL DORADO PUNCH

Fill large Bar glass nearly full Shaved Ice.

1 tablespoonful Bar Sugar.

1/4 jigger Whiskey.

1/4 jigger Jamaica Rum.

1/2 jigger Brandy.

1 slice Lemon.

Shake; dress with Fruit and serve with Straws.


ENGLISH BISHOP PUNCH

Roast an Orange before a fire or in a hot oven. When brown cut it in
quarters and drop the pieces, with a few Cloves, into a small
porcelain-lined or agate vessel, and pour in 1 quart of hot Port Wine.
Add 6 lumps Cut Loaf Sugar and let the mixture simmer over the fire for
30 minutes. Serve in Stem glasses with Nutmeg grated on top.


FANCY WHISKEY SMASH

Fill large Bar glass 1/2 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar.

3 sprigs Mint pressed with muddler in 1 jigger aerated Water.

1 jigger Whiskey.

Stir well; strain into Sour glass; dress with Fruit and serve.


FANNIE WARD

Use a large Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

White of an Egg.

Juice 1/2 Lime.

2 dashes imported Grenadine.

1 jigger Bacardi Rum.

Shake and strain into Cocktail glass.


FEDORA

Fill large Bar glass 3/4 full Shaved Ice.

2 teaspoonfuls Bar Sugar dissolved in little Water.

1 pony Curacoa.

1 pony Brandy.

1/2 pony Jamaica Hum.

1/2 pony Whiskey.

Shake well; dress with Fruit and serve with Straws.


FISH CLUB PUNCH (for a party of 8)

Into a Punch bowl pour:

2-1/2 jiggers Lemon Juice.

4 jiggers Peach Brandy.

2 jiggers Cognac Brandy.

2 jiggers Jamaica Rum.

3 pints Ice Water.

Stir well; ladle into Punch glass and serve.


FOG HORN--Country Club Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

1/2 Lime Juice.

1/2 Lemon Juice.

1 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Stir well; strain into tall, thin glass and fill with imported Ginger
Ale.


FREE LOVE COCKTAIL---Club Style

Lump Ice.

Use Shaker.

1/2 of the white of 1 Egg.

3 dashes Anisette.

1 jigger Old Tom Gin.

1 pony fresh Cream.

Shake well, serve in Cocktail glass.


FRENCH POUSSE CAFE

Fill a Pousse Cafe glass 1/2 full of Maraschino and add: Raspberry
Syrup, Vanilla, Curacoa, Chartreuse and Brandy in equal proportions
until the glass is filled. Then proceed as for Abricontine Pousse Cafe.


GARDEN PUNCH (2-1/2 gallon mixture for a party of 50)

Place a good size block of Ice in a large Punch bowl.

4 jiggers Lemon Juice.

1-1/2 lbs. Bar Sugar.

2 jiggers Orange Juice.

1-1/2 jiggers green Chartreuse.

1 quart Brandy.

6 Quarts Tokay or Sweet Catawba Wine.

2 quarts Claret Wine.

Stir well; ladle into Stem glasses, and decorate each glass with Fruit
before serving.


G.O.P.

Use a large Mixing glass with Lump of Ice.

2 jiggers of Orange Juice.

2 jiggers of Grape Fruit Juice.

Fill with Seltzer Water.

Stir; ornament with Fruit and serve with Straws.


GIBSON COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

1 jigger Gordon Gin.

1 pony French Vermouth.

Stir; strain and serve in Cocktail glass.


GILLETTE COCKTAIL--Chicago Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

Juice 1/2 Lime.

1-1/2 jiggers Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1/2 teaspoonful Bar Sugar.

Stir well and strain into Cocktail glass.


GIN AND CALAMUS

Put 1/2 oz. of Calamus Root, which has been steeped, into a quart bottle
of Gin.

Serve as you would a Straight Drink.


GIN DAISY

Juice of 1/2 of a Lime.

1 pony Cusenier Grenadine.

1 jigger Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Serve in a Mug with Lump Ice; fill with Seltzer.

Stir well and decorate with the skin of the Lime and fresh Mint and
serve with Straws.


GIN SOUR--Country Club Style

Use a large Mixing glass.

Fill with Lump Ice.

1/2 Lime Juice.

1/2 Orange Juice.

2 dashes Pineapple Juice.

1/2 pony Rock Candy Syrup.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


GIN SQUASH--Country Club Style

Use a large glass Stein; fill with Lump Ice.

1 pony Lemon Juice.

1 jigger Orange Juice.

1 pony Pineapple Juice.

1 pony Rock Candy Syrup.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Fill with Seltzer: stir well and serve.


GOLFER'S DELIGHT--Home of Bevo--18th Hole.

Use a large glass Pitcher; fill with Lump Ice.

2 bottles Bevo.

2 bottles Sweet Soda.

Stir well and serve in a Beer glass.

Fifty-fifty.


HORSE THIEF COCKTAIL

Fill a large Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

2 dashes green Absinthe.

1/2 pony Italian Vermouth.

1 jigger Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

Stir well and serve in a Cocktail glass.


IRISH ROSE--Country Club Style

Use a tall, thin glass; fill with Cracked Ice.

1 pony imported Grenadine.

1 jigger Old Bushmill Whiskey.

Fill with Seltzer.

Stir well and serve.


JERSEY LIGHTNING COCKTAIL

Use large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

1 jigger Apple Jack Brandy.

1 pony Italian Vermouth.

Stir well; strain and serve in Cocktail glass.


KNABENSCHUE--Country Club Style

Use a small stone Mug; Lump Ice.

1 lump Sugar.

2 dashes Angostura Bitters.

Fill with Champagne.

Stir well; dress with fresh Mint and serve.


L.P.W.

Use a large Mixing glass.

Fill with Lump See.

1 jigger of Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1/2 pony of Italian Vermouth.

1/2 pony of French Vermouth.

Stir well and strain into a Cocktail glass.

Add a Pickeled Onion and serve.


LADIES' DELIGHT--Thursday Luncheon Punch

1 quart of Orange Pekoe Tea (cold).

1 quart of Old Country Club Brandy.

1 pint of Lemon Juice.

1 pint of Orange Juice.

1/2 pint of Pineapple Juice.

2 quarts Berncastler Berg.

1 pint of Bar Sugar.

Use a large Punch bowl with one Lump of Ice.

Pour in mixture; add one quart of Cook's Imperial Champagne.

Stir well; decorate with fresh Mint, Fruit in season, and serve.


LEAPING FROG

1 jigger Hungarian Apricot Brandy.

Juice of 1/2 Lime.

Fill glass with Lump Ice.

Shake well and strain into Stem glass.


LEMONADE APOLLINARIS (or Carbonated Water)

Fill large Mixing glass 2/3 full fine Ice.

1 tablespoonful Bar Sugar.

Juice of 1 Lemon.\s+\d\d?

Fill up with Apollinaris or suitable Carbonated Water. Stir; strain into
Lemonade glass; dress with Fruit and serve.


LONE TREE COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1/3 Italian Vermouth.

1/3 French Vermouth.
\s+\d\d?
Shake well; serve in Cocktail glass.


MINT JULEP--Kentucky Style

Use a large Silver Mug.

Dissolve one lump of Sugar in one-half pony of Water.

Fill mug with Fine Ice.

Two jiggers of Old Bourbon Whiskey.

Stir well; add one boquet of Mint and serve.

Be careful and not bruise the Mint.


OVERALL JULEP--St. Louis Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

2/3 Wineglass Rye Whiskey.

2/3 Wineglass Gordon Gin.

1/2 Wineglass Imported Grenadine.

Juice 1/2 Lemon.

Juice 1/2 Lime.

Shake well; pour into tall, thin glass; add one bottle Imported Club
Soda and serve.


ONION COCKTAIL

1 jigger of Burnette's Tom Gin.

1/2 of Italian Vermouth and no Bitters used.

Large Bar glass with Cracked Ice and stir well.

Strain and serve with an Onion.


OLD FASHION COCKTAIL

Use a Toddy glass.

1 lump of Ice.

2 dashes of Angostura Bitters.

1 lump of Sugar and dissolve in Water.

1-1/2 jiggers of Bourbon Whiskey.

Twist piece of Lemon Skin over the drink and drop it in. Stir well and
serve.


OJEN COCKTAIL

Use an old-fashion Toddy glass.

1 lump Ice.
\s+\d\d?
Juice of 1/2 of a Lime.

1 dash Angostura Bitters.

2 dashes of Seltzer Water.

Stir well and serve.


PEQUOT SEMER

Use a tall, thin Bar glass.

Juice of a Lime.

Three sprigs of fresh Mint.

1 dash Cusenier Grenadine.

1/2 pony Pineapple Juice.

1/2 pony Orange Juice.

1 jigger of Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.\s+\d\d?

Crush ingredients together; fill with Lump Ice; add Seltzer. Stir well
and serve.


PINEAPPLE JULEP (for a party of 6--Use a small punch bowl)

1 quart of Sparkling Moselle.

1 jigger Cusenier Grenadine.

1 jigger Maraschino.

1 jigger Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1 jigger Lemon Juice.

1 jigger Orange Bitters.

1 jigger Angostura Bitters.

4 Oranges, sliced.

2 Lemons, sliced.

1 ripe Pineapple, sliced and quartered.

4 tablespoonfuls Sugar.

1 bottle Apollinaris Water.

Place large square of Ice in bowl; dress with the Fruits and serve Julep
in fancy Stem glass.


POLO PLAYERS' DELIGHT--Horse's Neck\s+\d\d?

Use a tall, thin glass.

1 lump Ice.

1 jigger Sir Robert Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1 Cantrell & Cochran's Ginger Ale.

Stir well and serve.


POUSSE CAFE--St. Louis

Pour in Pousse Cafe glass as follows:

1/6 glass Raspberry Syrup.

1/6 glass Maraschino.

1/6 glass Green Vanilla.

1/6 glass Curacao.

1/6 glass Yellow Chartreuse.

1/6 glass Brandy.

In preparing the above use a small Wineglass with spoon for pouring in
each Cordial separately.

Be careful they do not mix together.


PUNCH A LA ROMAINE (for a party of 16)

1 bottle Champagne.

1 bottle Rum.

2 tablespoons Dr. Siegert's genuine Angostura Bitters.

10 Lemons.

3 sweet Oranges.

2 pounds Powdered Sugar.

10 fresh Eggs.

Dissolve the Sugar in the Juice of the Lemons and Oranges adding the
Rind of 1 Orange.

Strain through a Sieve into a bowl and add by degrees the whites of the
Eggs beaten to a froth.

Place the bowl on Ice till cold, then stir in the Rum and Wine until
thoroughly mixed. Serve in fancy Stem glasses.


RAMOS GIN FIZZ--Country Club Style

1 lump Ice.

1 dash Lemon Juice.

1 dash Orange Water.

White of Egg.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

1 teaspoonful Powdered Sugar.

1 pony Milk.

1 dash Seltzer Water.

Shake well; strain into Highball glass and serve.


REMSEN COOLER

Use a medium size Fizz glass.

Peel a Lemon as you would an Apple.

Place the Rind or Peeling into the Fizz glass.

2 or 3 lumps of Crystal Ice.

1 Wineglass of Remsen Scotch Whiskey.

Fill up the balance with Club Soda; stir up slowly with a spoon and
serve.

In this country it is often the ease that people call a Remsen Cooler
where they want Old Tom Gin or Sloe Gin instead of Scotch Whiskey. It is
therefore the bartender's duty to mix as desired.


SEPTEMBER MORN COCKTAIL--Country Club Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

1/2 Lime Juice.

1 jigger Burnette's Old Tom Gin.

2 dashes Imported Grenadine.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


SHANDY GAFF

Use a large Bar glass.

Fill half the glass with Porter and half with Ginger Ale. It is also
made with half Ale and half Ginger Ale.


SHERRY AND BITTERS

Put 2 dashes Dr. Siegert's genuine Angostura Bitters in a Sherry glass
and roil the glass 'till the Bitters entirely cover the inside surface.

Fill the glass with Sherry and serve.


STINGER--Country Club Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

1 jigger Old Brandy.

1 pony white Creme de Menthe.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


STONE SOUR

Use a tall, thin glass; fill with fine Ice.

1/2 pony Lemon Juice.

1/2 pony Orange Juice.

2 dashes Rock Candy Syrup.

1 jigger Old Tom Gin.

Leave in Ice; stir well and serve.


SAMTON COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass with Cracked Ice.

1 jigger Orange Juice.

1 jigger imported Ginger Ale.

Fifty-fifty.

Shake well; strain into Cocktail glass and serve.


TOM TOM

Use a large Brandy Roller glass.

Fill Roller half full of Fine Ice.

Add 1 pony of Old Brandy.

1 jigger of green Creme de Menthe and serve.


TOM AND JERRY

Make a batter by separating the yolks from whites of a given number of
Eggs; beating the whites to a stiff froth and stirring the yolks until
very thin. Then mix together in a Tom and Jerry bowl, stirring in Bar
Sugar slowly until the batter is stiff and serve as follows:

Fill Tom and Jerry Mug 1/4 full of Batter.

1/2 jigger Rum.

1/2 jigger Brandy.

Stir well with Bar spoon; fill up with Hot Water; stir more; grate
Nutmeg on top and serve.


TOKAY PUNCH

Out of 6 pounds of Tokay Grapes, select one pound to be put into the
Punch last. Now make a boiling Syrup of three pounds of Sugar and one
quart of boiling Water and pour this over the remaining five pounds of
Grapes. When partly cold rub it through a sieve, leaving skins and seeds
behind. Then add the Juice of two Oranges and two Lemons and one quart
of St. Julien Claret, 1 jigger of Angostura Bitters.

Then strain and freeze.

Before serving add 1 pint of good Brandy and an Italian Meringue Paste
of six Egg whites, colored a nice red and drop in the remaining Grapes.


TWILIGHT COCKTAIL

Use a large Mixing glass with Lump Ice.

1 jigger Bourbon.

1/2 pony Italian Vermouth.

Juice of whole Lime.

Shake well; strain into a Champagne glass; fill with Seltzer and serve.


WHISKEY PUNCH--St. Louis Style

Use a large Mixing glass; fill with Lump Ice.

One jigger Bourbon Whiskey.

1/2 pony Italian Vermouth.

1/2 pony Pineapple Syrup.

1/2 pony Lemon Juice.

Shake well; strain into Stem glass and serve.


WHISKEY SCOTCH HOT

1 lump Sugar dissolved in Hot Whiskey glass.

1 jigger Scotch Whiskey.

Fill up with Hot Water.

1 slice Lemon Peel.

Stir and serve with Nutmeg sprinkled on top.


WHISKEY IRISH HOT

Substitute Irish for Scotch Whiskey and proceed as for Hot Scotch
Whiskey.




INDEX



                                Page
Abricontine Pousse Cafe
Absinthe
Absinthe, American Service
Absinthe Cocktail
Absinthe Frappe
Absinthe, French Service
Absinthe, Italian Service
Admiral Schley High Ball
Ale Flip
Ale Sangaree
American Pousse Cafe
Apollinaris Lemonade
Apple Jack Cocktail
Apple Jack Fix
Applejack Sour
"Arf-And-Arf"
Arrack Punch
Astringent
Auditorium Cooler
All Right Cocktail

Bacardi Cocktail
Bacardi Cocktail--Country
Club Style
Baldy Cocktail
Bamboo Cocktail
Black Cow
Blood Hound Cocktail
Bombay Cocktail
Benedictine
Beef Tea
Bishop
Bishop A La Prusse
Bismarck
Bizzy Izzy High Ball
Black Stripe
Black and Tan Punch
Blackthorne Cocktail
Blackthorne Sour
Bliz's Royal Rickey
Blue Blazer
Boating Punch
Bombay Punch
Bon Soir ("Good Night")
Boston Cooler
Bottle of Cocktail
Brace Up
Brandy and Ginger Ale
Brandy and Soda
Brandy Flip
Brandy Float
Brandy Julep
Brandy Punch
Brandy Scaffa
Brandy Shake
Brandy Shrub
Brandy Skin
Brandy Sling
Brandy Smash
Brandy Sour
Brandy Toddy
Bronx Cocktail
Burnt Brandy
Buster Brown Cocktail
Buttered Rum

California Sherry Cobbler
California Wine Cobbler
Carleton Rickey--St. Louis Style
Catawba Cobbler
Celery Sour
Century Club Punch
Champagne
Champagne Cobbler
Champagne Cocktail
Champagne Cup (2-gallon Mixture)
Champagne Frappe
Champagne Julep
Champagne Punch (for party of 6)
Champagne Sour
Champagne Velvet
Chocolate Punch
Cider Eggnog
Claret and Ice
Claret Cobbler
Claret Cup, (2-gallon mixture)
Claret Flip
Claret Punch
Claret Punch (5-gallon mixture for a large reception or party of 100 people)
Clover Club Cocktail
Clover Leaf Cocktail
Club Cocktail
Club House Claret Punch
Club House Punch (party of 20)
Coffee Cocktail
Cohasset Punch
Cold Ruby Punch (2-1/2-gallon mixture for 50 people)
Columbia Skin
Companion Punch (2-1/2-gallon mixture for a reception or party of 50 people)
Continental Sour
Cordial Lemonade
Country Cocktail
Couperee
Creme De Menthe
Crimean Cup A La Marmora
Country Club Punch
Cooperstown Cocktail
Curacoa
Curacoa Punch
Currant Shrub

Deronda Cocktail
Diarrhea Draught
Dixie Cocktail
Dream
Delusion
Doray Punch
Doray Sour
Duplex Cocktail
Durkee Cocktail

Eagle Punch
East India Cocktail
Egg Milk Punch
Eggnog
Eggnog (bowl of 3 gallons)
Egg Sour
El Dorado Punch
English Bishop Punch

Fancy Whiskey Smash
Fannie Ward
Fedora
Fish Club Punch
Fog Horn--Country Club Style
Free Love Cocktail--Club Style
French Pousse Cafe

Garden Punch
G.O.P
Gibson Cocktail
Gillette Cocktail--Chicago Style
Gin and Calamus
Gin Daisy
Gin Sour--Country Club Style
Gin Squash--Country Club Style
Golfer's Delight

Horse Thief Cocktail

Irish Rose

Jersey Lightning Cocktail

Knabenschue

L.P.W.
Ladies' Delight
Leaping Frog
Lemonade Apollinaris
Lone Tree Cocktail

Mint Julep--Kentucky Style

Overall Julep--St. Louis Style
Onion Cocktail
Old Fashion Cocktail
Ojen Cocktail

Pequot Semer
Pineapple Julep
Polo Players' Delight
Pousse Cafe--St. Louis
Punch A La Romaine
Ramos Gin Fizz
Remsen Cooler

September Morn Cocktail
Shandy Gaff
Sherry and Bitters
Stinger
Stone Sour
Samton Cocktail

Tom Tom
Tom and Jerry
Tokay Punch
Twilight Cocktail

Whiskey Punch--St. Louis Style
Whiskey Scotch Hot
Whiskey Irish Hot



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE IDEAL BARTENDER***


******* This file should be named 13487.txt or 13487.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.net/1/3/4/8/13487



Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

